 # lowx 

**`lowx`** is a program to determine all subgroups of a finitely-presented
group up to a given "low" index.

The main change in this release is that the "standard" and "mixed" modes
has been integrated into a single program. Also the "skip" command can
now be used in "mixed" mode.

Usage: lowx [-v -bn,m -p{t|p|a}] lx_file

    -pt print the full coset-table
    -pp print permutations of cosets induced by the generators
    -pa print both coset-table and permutation representation
	  default: print only the index and the extra relators/generators
    -bn,m dump the first level branches from branch n to branch m
    -v display version information and exit

The `lx_file` refers to the text file describing the problem parameters
in a simple language understood by `lowx`. The simplest way to use the
program just type:

    lowx lx_file

The result (and possible error messages) will be printed on the
terminal.  To redirect the output and error messages into a file invoke
the program as:

    lowx lx_file >& output_file

The program understands expressions in terms of generators with round
brackets and powers. The notation for commutators has the form of
`[a,b]`. At the beginning of the output the program prints out the
parameters as it understood them. It is a good idea to check this output
if it really is what was intended, in particular before long
computations.

For example, the input parameters from file `mix4.lx` are printed back as

    # group=<h,p,q,a|h^3 p^2 q^2 a^2 p*q*p*q h^-1*p*h*p h*q*h*q a*p*a*q>;
    # subgens=<h p q>;
    # subgroup=<1 h h^2 q q*h q*h^2 p p*h p*h^2 p*q p*q*h p*q*h^2>;
    # normal_subgroups;
    # mixed;
    # max_index=56;
    # max_no_rows=73;

LOWX recognizes and simplify involutions not only in expressions but in
the coset-tables too.

Although the program writes `1` for the identity it has to be specified
as the 0-th power of some generator.

If `max_no_rows` is not specified the default is floor(1.3*max_index)+1.

The format of the default output is:

    index word1 word2 ...

Items are separated by space. Admittedly, this format is for machines
(for post-processing or formatting) rather than for humans.

The main use of `lowx` is to find normal subgroups. To achieve this, one
has to specify "normal_subgroups;" in the input file. (See, for example
d4.lx.)

If `subgens = <...>;` is specified for `lowx`, then it will do a coset
enumeration for the subgroup generated by the given words. See the
`ultimate.lx` example.

`subgens` has a different meaning when it used together with the `mixed`
keyword.  In this case the program works in "mixed mode".  The elements
of the subgroup should be also listed as parameter using
`subgroup = <...>;`.  See the `mix4.lx` example.

To dump the first level branches use the -b switch. For example, to see
the first 100 branches you can type

    lowx -b1,100 lx_file

Please note, there is no space between the 1 and 100 only the comma.

The general form of the `skip` command:

    skip a-b c d-e ... ;

Branches are numbered from 1, the meaning of `a-b` is to skip `a, a+1, ... b`.

Note, while the `skip` command works in `mixed` mode, dumping the first
level branches does not "mix in" the given auxiliary subgroup yet.

## License

**Copyright (©) 2022  Peter Dobsan**

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero  General Public License along
with this program; If not, see [GNU Incenses](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/)

